docs/repositories.md, before:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Declare runtime dependencies

These are needed for local dev, and users must install them as well.
See https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/skylark/deploying.html#dependencies


<a id="#rules_ts_dependencies"></a>

## rules_ts_dependencies

<pre>
rules_ts_dependencies(<a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version_from">ts_version_from</a>, <a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version">ts_version</a>, <a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_integrity">ts_integrity</a>)
</pre>

Dependencies needed by users of rules_ts.

To skip fetching the typescript package, define repository called 'npm_typescript' before calling this.


**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version_from"></a>ts_version_from |  label of a json file (typically <code>package.json</code>) which declares an exact typescript version in a dependencies or devDependencies property. Exactly one of <code>ts_version</code> or <code>ts_version_from</code> must be set.   |  <code>None</code> |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version"></a>ts_version |  version of the TypeScript compiler. Exactly one of <code>ts_version</code> or <code>ts_version_from</code> must be set.   |  <code>None</code> |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_integrity"></a>ts_integrity |  integrity hash for the npm package. By default, uses values mirrored into rules_ts. For example, to get the integrity of version 4.6.3 you could run <code>curl --silent https://registry.npmjs.org/typescript/4.6.3 | jq -r '.dist.integrity'</code>   |  <code>None</code> |

Commit message:

fix: support multiple typescript versions

docs/repositories.md, after:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Declare runtime dependencies

These are needed for local dev, and users must install them as well.
See https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/skylark/deploying.html#dependencies


<a id="#rules_ts_dependencies"></a>

## rules_ts_dependencies

<pre>
rules_ts_dependencies(<a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-name">name</a>, <a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version_from">ts_version_from</a>, <a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version">ts_version</a>, <a href="#rules_ts_dependencies-ts_integrity">ts_integrity</a>)
</pre>

Dependencies needed by users of rules_ts.

To skip fetching the typescript package, define repository called 'npm_typescript' before calling this.

To have multiple version of typescript in the same workspace you may call this more than once with different names.


**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-name"></a>name |  name of the repository   |  <code>"npm_typescript"</code> |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version_from"></a>ts_version_from |  label of a json file (typically <code>package.json</code>) which declares an exact typescript version in a dependencies or devDependencies property. Exactly one of <code>ts_version</code> or <code>ts_version_from</code> must be set.   |  <code>None</code> |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_version"></a>ts_version |  version of the TypeScript compiler. Exactly one of <code>ts_version</code> or <code>ts_version_from</code> must be set.   |  <code>None</code> |
| <a id="rules_ts_dependencies-ts_integrity"></a>ts_integrity |  integrity hash for the npm package. By default, uses values mirrored into rules_ts. For example, to get the integrity of version 4.6.3 you could run <code>curl --silent https://registry.npmjs.org/typescript/4.6.3 | jq -r '.dist.integrity'</code>   |  <code>None</code> |
