docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting ts_project failures

`ts_project` is a thin wrapper around the [`tsc` compiler from TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html). Any code that works with `tsc` should work with `ts_project` with a few caveats:

- `ts_project` always produces some output files, or else Bazel would never run it.
    Therefore you shouldn't use it with TypeScript's `noEmit` option.
    If you only want to test that the code typechecks, use `tsc` directly.
    See [examples/typecheck_only](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/blob/main/examples/typecheck_only/BUILD.bazel)
- `ts_project` needs to know which `.ts` sources exist. If you have a tool which produces an "opaque" folder of
    `.ts` files and you cannot predict what they will be, then you can use `tsc` directly.
- Your tsconfig settings for `outDir` and `declarationDir` are ignored.
    Bazel requires that outputs are written beneath `bazel-out/[target architecture]/bin/path/to/package`.
- Bazel expects that each output is produced by a single rule.
    Thus if you have two `ts_project` rules with overlapping sources (the same `.ts` file
    appears in more than one) then you get an error about conflicting `.js` output
    files if you try to build both together.
    Worse, if you build them separately then the output directory will contain whichever
    one you happened to build most recently. This is highly discouraged.

You can often create a minimal repro of your problem outside of Bazel.
This is a good way to bisect whether your issue is purely with TypeScript, or there's something
Bazel-specific going on.

# Getting unstuck

The basic methodology for diagnosing problems is:

1. Gather information from Bazel about how `tsc` is spawned, like with `bazel aquery //path/to:my_ts_project`.
1. Reason about whether Bazel is providing all the inputs to `tsc` that you expect it to need. If not, the problem is with the dependencies.
1. Reason about whether Bazel has predicted the right outputs.
1. Gather information from TypeScript, typically by adding flags to the `args` attribute of the failing `ts_project`, as described below. Be prepared to deal with a large volume of data, like by writing the output to a file and using tools like an editor or unix utilities to analyze it.
1. Reason about whether TypeScript is looking for a file in the wrong place, or writing a file to the wrong place.

## Verbose mode

Running your build with `--@aspect_rules_ts//ts:verbose` causes the `ts_project` rule to enable several
flags for the TypeScript compiler. This produces a ton of output, so you'll probably want to 
redirect the stdout to a file that you can analyze with power tools.

## Problems with Persistent Workers

When Worker Support is enabled, we run `tsc` in a "watch mode" using the [Bazel Persistent Worker](https://bazel.build/remote/persistent) feature.
See the [`supports_workers`](https://docs.aspect.build/rules/aspect_rules_ts/docs/rules#supports_workers-1) attribute for docs on enabling this feature.

### Non-deterministic behavior

Persistent workers risk leaking state from one compilation to another, and you may still encounter such bugs, for example:
- removing a required types package from `deps` but the compilation still succeeds
- outputs created by a previous compilation are still produced even though the source file is deleted

You can confirm that it's a worker bug by running `bazel shutdown` and trying again. If that resolves the issue, it means that some state was leaking.

Please check for issues with persistent workers:
[persistent workers label](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/issues?q=label%3A%22persistent+workers%22)

### Not reproducible ts_project worker bugs
Not reproducible ts_project, a.k.a. state, bugs has been a challenge for anyone to diagnose and possibly, fix in ts_project. 
Not knowing what state the worker has been at when it falsely failed, or what went wrong along the way is hard to know.
For this, we introduced support  for `--worker_verbose` flag which prints a bunch of helpful logs to worker log file.

If you find yourself getting yelled at by ts_project falsely on occasion, drop `build --worker_verbose` to the `.bazelrc` file.
In addition to `--worker_verbose`, set `extendedDiagnostics` and `traceResolution` to true in the `tsconfig.json` file to log
additional information about how tsc reacts to events fed by worker protocol. 

```
{
    "compilerOptions": {
        "extendedDiagnostics": true,
        "traceResolution": true
    }
}
```

Next time, the ts_project yields false negative diagnostics messages, collect the logs files output_base and file a bug with the log files.

To collect log files run the command below at the workspace directory and attach the logs.tar file to issued file.
```
tar -cf logs.tar $(ls $(bazel info output_base)/bazel-workers/worker-*-TsProject.log)
```

This will help us understand what went wrong in your case, and hopefully implement a permanent fix for it.

## Which files should be emitted

TypeScript emits for each file in the "Program". `--listFiles` is a `tsc` flag to show what is in the program, and `--listEmittedFiles` shows what was written.

Upgrading to TypeScript 4.2 or greater can be helpful, because error messages were improved, and new flags were added.

TS 4.1:
```
error TS6059: File '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/test/index.test.ts' is not under 'rootDir' '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/src'. 'rootDir' is expected to contain all source files.
Target //ts/src:src failed to build
```

TS 4.2:
```
error TS6059: File '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/test/index.test.ts' is not under 'rootDir' '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/src'. 'rootDir' is expected to contain all source files.
  The file is in the program because:
    Matched by include pattern '**/*' in 'tsconfig.json'
```

The `--explainFiles` flag in TS 4.2 also gives information about why a given file was added to the program.

## Module not resolved

Use the `--traceResolution` flag to `tsc` to understand where TypeScript looked for the file.

Verify that there is actually a `.d.ts` file for TypeScript to resolve. Check that the dependency library has the `declarations = True` flag set, and that the `.d.ts` files appear where you expect them under `bazel-out`.

## NPM package type-checking failures

Strict dependencies and non-hoisted packages can cause type-checking failures when a package does not correctly declare TypeScript related npm dependencies. If a package exposes a dependency via TypeScript (such as publicly exporting a type from a dependency) then that dependency must be declared in the `package.json` `dependencies` in order for dependents to compile. Outside rules_ts with hoisted packages this *may* not be exposed if the missing dependency is declared in a parent or root package.json, however with strict dependencies in rules_js and bazel this will more likely be an issue.

Common solutions:

1. TypeScript `skipLibCheck` will avoid type-checking within dependencies where this errors may be occurring.
2. PNPM [packageExtensions](https://pnpm.io/package_json#pnpmpackageextensions) can be used to correct the dependencies of packages (normally by adding `@types/*` to the `dependencies` of the package).

Example type-checking errors due to use of `devDependencies`:

A React component from a library which does not declare `@types/react` as a dependency (JSX error):
```console
src/index.tsx(40,10): error TS2786: 'X' cannot be used as a JSX component.
  Its instance type 'X' is not a valid JSX element.
    Type 'X' is missing the following properties from type 'ElementClass': setState, forceUpdate, props, state, refs
```

A React component extending a component from a library which does not declare `@types/react` as a dependency (JSX error):
```console
src/index.tsx(55,12): error TS2786: 'Y' cannot be used as a JSX component.
  Its instance type 'Y' is not a valid JSX element.
    Type 'Y' is missing the following properties from type 'ElementClass': setState, forceUpdate, props, state, refs
```

Use of a library which does not declare `@types/express` as a dependency (type error):
```console
src/index.ts(2,25): error TS7016: Could not find a declaration file for module 'express'. '/bazel-out/.../node_modules/express/index.js' implicitly has an 'any' type.
  If the 'express' package actually exposes this module, consider sending a pull request to amend 'https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/tree/master/types/express'
```

- Undeclared type-only dependencies (often `@types/*`).
    Type-checking is done at compile-time so type-only packages are normally npm `devDependencies`. However many packages contain type-definitions which expose those type-only package as part of their TypeScript API, this makes the types required for any downstream TypeScript compilation but the use of `devDependencies` means those packages are not available downstream.

## TS5033: EPERM 

```
error TS5033: Could not write file 'bazel-out/x64_windows-fastbuild/bin/setup_script.js': EPERM: operation not permitted, open 'bazel-out/x64_windows-fastbuild/bin/setup_script.js'.
```
This likely means two different Bazel targets tried to write the same output file. Use `--listFiles` to ask `tsc` to show what files are in the program. Try `--explainFiles` (see above) to see how they got there.

You may find that the program contained a `.ts` file rather than the corresponding `.d.ts` file.

Also see https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/22208 - it's possible that TypeScript is resolving a `.ts` input where it should have used a `.d.ts` from another compilation.

## Webpack resolution failures when dropping ts-loader

The `compilerOptions.paths` property in `tsconfig.json` is often used for module names or simplifying import statements. A tool such as [`ts-loader`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader) enables Webpack to understand such paths.

When typescript compilation is moved to a separate step under `rules_ts` this understanding within webpack may be lost since it only sees JavaScript inputs.

Possible solutions:
* `tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin` webpack plugin for tsconfig paths (module names or just simplified import statements)
```
  resolve: {
    plugins: [new TsconfigPathsPlugin({ configFile: 'tsconfig.json' })]
  },
```

* Use pnpm workspaces and `npm_package`/`npm_link_package` in between the `ts_project` rule and the `webpack` rule, so that the loader finds files under the `node_modules` tree like it would with third-party npm packages.

Commit message:

docs: add troubleshooting note about debugging

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting ts_project failures

`ts_project` is a thin wrapper around the [`tsc` compiler from TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html). Any code that works with `tsc` should work with `ts_project` with a few caveats:

- `ts_project` always produces some output files, or else Bazel would never run it.
    Therefore you shouldn't use it with TypeScript's `noEmit` option.
    If you only want to test that the code typechecks, use `tsc` directly.
    See [examples/typecheck_only](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/blob/main/examples/typecheck_only/BUILD.bazel)
- `ts_project` needs to know which `.ts` sources exist. If you have a tool which produces an "opaque" folder of
    `.ts` files and you cannot predict what they will be, then you can use `tsc` directly.
- Your tsconfig settings for `outDir` and `declarationDir` are ignored.
    Bazel requires that outputs are written beneath `bazel-out/[target architecture]/bin/path/to/package`.
- Bazel expects that each output is produced by a single rule.
    Thus if you have two `ts_project` rules with overlapping sources (the same `.ts` file
    appears in more than one) then you get an error about conflicting `.js` output
    files if you try to build both together.
    Worse, if you build them separately then the output directory will contain whichever
    one you happened to build most recently. This is highly discouraged.

You can often create a minimal repro of your problem outside of Bazel.
This is a good way to bisect whether your issue is purely with TypeScript, or there's something
Bazel-specific going on.

# Getting unstuck

The basic methodology for diagnosing problems is:

1. Gather information from Bazel about how `tsc` is spawned, like with `bazel aquery //path/to:my_ts_project`.
1. Reason about whether Bazel is providing all the inputs to `tsc` that you expect it to need. If not, the problem is with the dependencies.
1. Reason about whether Bazel has predicted the right outputs.
1. Gather information from TypeScript, typically by adding flags to the `args` attribute of the failing `ts_project`, as described below. Be prepared to deal with a large volume of data, like by writing the output to a file and using tools like an editor or unix utilities to analyze it.
1. Reason about whether TypeScript is looking for a file in the wrong place, or writing a file to the wrong place.

## Verbose mode

Running your build with `--@aspect_rules_ts//ts:verbose` causes the `ts_project` rule to enable several
flags for the TypeScript compiler. This produces a ton of output, so you'll probably want to 
redirect the stdout to a file that you can analyze with power tools.

## Problems with Persistent Workers

When Worker Support is enabled, we run `tsc` in a "watch mode" using the [Bazel Persistent Worker](https://bazel.build/remote/persistent) feature.
See the [`supports_workers`](https://docs.aspect.build/rules/aspect_rules_ts/docs/rules#supports_workers-1) attribute for docs on enabling this feature.

### Non-deterministic behavior

Persistent workers risk leaking state from one compilation to another, and you may still encounter such bugs, for example:
- removing a required types package from `deps` but the compilation still succeeds
- outputs created by a previous compilation are still produced even though the source file is deleted

You can confirm that it's a worker bug by running `bazel shutdown` and trying again. If that resolves the issue, it means that some state was leaking.

Please check for issues with persistent workers:
[persistent workers label](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/issues?q=label%3A%22persistent+workers%22)

### Not reproducible ts_project worker bugs
Not reproducible ts_project, a.k.a. state, bugs has been a challenge for anyone to diagnose and possibly, fix in ts_project. 
Not knowing what state the worker has been at when it falsely failed, or what went wrong along the way is hard to know.
For this, we introduced support  for `--worker_verbose` flag which prints a bunch of helpful logs to worker log file.

If you find yourself getting yelled at by ts_project falsely on occasion, drop `build --worker_verbose` to the `.bazelrc` file.
In addition to `--worker_verbose`, set `extendedDiagnostics` and `traceResolution` to true in the `tsconfig.json` file to log
additional information about how tsc reacts to events fed by worker protocol. 

```
{
    "compilerOptions": {
        "extendedDiagnostics": true,
        "traceResolution": true
    }
}
```

Next time, the ts_project yields false negative diagnostics messages, collect the logs files output_base and file a bug with the log files.

To collect log files run the command below at the workspace directory and attach the logs.tar file to issued file.
```
tar -cf logs.tar $(ls $(bazel info output_base)/bazel-workers/worker-*-TsProject.log)
```

This will help us understand what went wrong in your case, and hopefully implement a permanent fix for it.

## Which files should be emitted

TypeScript emits for each file in the "Program". `--listFiles` is a `tsc` flag to show what is in the program, and `--listEmittedFiles` shows what was written.

Upgrading to TypeScript 4.2 or greater can be helpful, because error messages were improved, and new flags were added.

TS 4.1:
```
error TS6059: File '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/test/index.test.ts' is not under 'rootDir' '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/src'. 'rootDir' is expected to contain all source files.
Target //ts/src:src failed to build
```

TS 4.2:
```
error TS6059: File '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/test/index.test.ts' is not under 'rootDir' '/private/var/tmp/_bazel_alex.eagle/efa8e81f99c35c1227ef40a83cd29a26/execroot/examples_jest/ts/src'. 'rootDir' is expected to contain all source files.
  The file is in the program because:
    Matched by include pattern '**/*' in 'tsconfig.json'
```

The `--explainFiles` flag in TS 4.2 also gives information about why a given file was added to the program.

## Module not resolved

Use the `--traceResolution` flag to `tsc` to understand where TypeScript looked for the file.

Verify that there is actually a `.d.ts` file for TypeScript to resolve. Check that the dependency library has the `declarations = True` flag set, and that the `.d.ts` files appear where you expect them under `bazel-out`.

## Source maps missing

TypeScript source maps can be configured in various ways which may effect compatibility with Bazel or other tools.

First, the tsconfig `compilerOptions.sourceMap` and associated `ts_project(source_map)` must be set to `True` to enable source maps. If these are misaligned the the `ts_project(validate)` will report an error.

Second, if `compilerOptions.inlineSources` is set *not* set to `true` then the .ts source files must be manually included alongside the compiled .js.map files to ensure they are present at runtime.

The recommended approach is using `compilerOptions.inlineSources` set to `true` to place the original TypeScript source code inline within the .js.map files, or `compilerOptions.inlineSourceMap` set to `true` to place the full sourcemap and original TypeScript source code within .js files. This way no extra bazel configuration is required to ensure the TypeScript source code is available when debugging.

## NPM package type-checking failures

Strict dependencies and non-hoisted packages can cause type-checking failures when a package does not correctly declare TypeScript related npm dependencies. If a package exposes a dependency via TypeScript (such as publicly exporting a type from a dependency) then that dependency must be declared in the `package.json` `dependencies` in order for dependents to compile. Outside rules_ts with hoisted packages this *may* not be exposed if the missing dependency is declared in a parent or root package.json, however with strict dependencies in rules_js and bazel this will more likely be an issue.

Common solutions:

1. TypeScript `skipLibCheck` will avoid type-checking within dependencies where this errors may be occurring.
2. PNPM [packageExtensions](https://pnpm.io/package_json#pnpmpackageextensions) can be used to correct the dependencies of packages (normally by adding `@types/*` to the `dependencies` of the package).

Example type-checking errors due to use of `devDependencies`:

A React component from a library which does not declare `@types/react` as a dependency (JSX error):
```console
src/index.tsx(40,10): error TS2786: 'X' cannot be used as a JSX component.
  Its instance type 'X' is not a valid JSX element.
    Type 'X' is missing the following properties from type 'ElementClass': setState, forceUpdate, props, state, refs
```

A React component extending a component from a library which does not declare `@types/react` as a dependency (JSX error):
```console
src/index.tsx(55,12): error TS2786: 'Y' cannot be used as a JSX component.
  Its instance type 'Y' is not a valid JSX element.
    Type 'Y' is missing the following properties from type 'ElementClass': setState, forceUpdate, props, state, refs
```

Use of a library which does not declare `@types/express` as a dependency (type error):
```console
src/index.ts(2,25): error TS7016: Could not find a declaration file for module 'express'. '/bazel-out/.../node_modules/express/index.js' implicitly has an 'any' type.
  If the 'express' package actually exposes this module, consider sending a pull request to amend 'https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/tree/master/types/express'
```

- Undeclared type-only dependencies (often `@types/*`).
    Type-checking is done at compile-time so type-only packages are normally npm `devDependencies`. However many packages contain type-definitions which expose those type-only package as part of their TypeScript API, this makes the types required for any downstream TypeScript compilation but the use of `devDependencies` means those packages are not available downstream.

## TS5033: EPERM 

```
error TS5033: Could not write file 'bazel-out/x64_windows-fastbuild/bin/setup_script.js': EPERM: operation not permitted, open 'bazel-out/x64_windows-fastbuild/bin/setup_script.js'.
```
This likely means two different Bazel targets tried to write the same output file. Use `--listFiles` to ask `tsc` to show what files are in the program. Try `--explainFiles` (see above) to see how they got there.

You may find that the program contained a `.ts` file rather than the corresponding `.d.ts` file.

Also see https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/22208 - it's possible that TypeScript is resolving a `.ts` input where it should have used a `.d.ts` from another compilation.

## Webpack resolution failures when dropping ts-loader

The `compilerOptions.paths` property in `tsconfig.json` is often used for module names or simplifying import statements. A tool such as [`ts-loader`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader) enables Webpack to understand such paths.

When typescript compilation is moved to a separate step under `rules_ts` this understanding within webpack may be lost since it only sees JavaScript inputs.

Possible solutions:
* `tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin` webpack plugin for tsconfig paths (module names or just simplified import statements)
```
  resolve: {
    plugins: [new TsconfigPathsPlugin({ configFile: 'tsconfig.json' })]
  },
```

* Use pnpm workspaces and `npm_package`/`npm_link_package` in between the `ts_project` rule and the `webpack` rule, so that the loader finds files under the `node_modules` tree like it would with third-party npm packages.
